Chapter 2

# Chapter 2

## The Wedding at Cana
**Verses 1-12**

**1:** On the third day, there was a wedding at Cana, and the mother of Jesus was there.
**2:** Jesus also was invited to the wedding with his disciples.
**3:** When the wine ran out, the mother of Jesus said to him, "They have no wine."
**4:** And Jesus said to her, "Woman, what does this have to do with me? My hour has not yet come."
**5:** His mother said to the servants, "Do whatever he tells you."

**6:** Now there were six stone water jars there for the Jewish rites of purification, each holding twenty or thirty gallons.
**7:** Jesus said to the servants, "Fill the jars with water." And they filled them up to the brim.
**8:** And he said to them, "Now draw some out and take it out to the master of the feast."
**9:** So they took it. When the master of the feast tasted the water now become wine and did not know where it came from, the master of the feast called the bridegroom and said to him, "Everyone serves the good wine first, and when people have drunk freely, then the poor wine. But you have kept the good wine until now."
**10:** This, the first of his signs, Jesus did at Cana in Galilee and manifested his glory.
**11:** And his disciples believed in him.
**12:** After this, he went down to Capernaum, with his mother and his brothers and his disciples, and they stayed there for a few days.

## Jesus Cleanses the Temple
**Verses 13-22**

**13:** The Passover of the Jews was at hand, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
**14:** In the temple, he found those who were selling oxen and sheep and pigeons, and the money-changers sitting there.
**15:** And making a whip of cords, he drove them all out of the temple, with the sheep and oxen. And he poured out the coins of the money-changers and overturned their tables.
**16:** And he told those who sold pigeons, "Take these things away; do not make my Father's house a house of trade."
**17:** His disciples remembered that it was written, "Zeal for your house will consume me."

**18:** So the Jews said to him, "What sign do you show us for doing these things?"
**19:** Jesus answered them, "Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up."
**20:** The Jews then said, "It has taken forty-six years to build this temple, and you will raise it up in three days?"
**21:** But he was speaking about the temple of his body.
**22:** When, therefore, he was raised from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this, and they believed the Scripture and the word that Jesus had spoken.

## Jesus Knows What is in Man
**Verses 23-25**

**23:** Now when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover Feast, many believed in his name when they saw the signs that he was doing.
**24:** But Jesus on his part did not entrust himself to them because he knew all people.
**25:** and needed no one to bear witness about man, for he himself knew what was in man.

# Footnotes

<ol type='a'>
	<li>John 2:6 Greek two or three measures (metrētas); a metrētēs was about 10 gallons or 35 liters</li>
	<li>John 2:12 Or brothers and sisters. In New Testament usage, depending on the context, the plural Greek word adelphoi (translated “brothers”) may refer either to brothers or to brothers and sisters</li>
	<li>John 2:12 Or brothers and sisters. In New Testament usage, depending on the context, the plural Greek word adelphoi (translated “brothers”) may refer either to brothers or to brothers and sisters</li>
<ol>

id: 0841a6f7184f4922b0c1c696b7c1f442
parent_id: 429666393c32443695c559f480a4f9a3
created_time: 2023-07-30T01:16:50.900Z
updated_time: 2023-10-30T09:23:36.163Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 32.51494690
longitude: -117.03824710
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 3225075.815711975
user_created_time: 2023-07-30T01:16:50.900Z
user_updated_time: 2023-09-06T01:50:25.811Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
deleted_time: 0
type_: 1