Chapter 1

# Chapter 1

**1:** These are the names of the sons of Israel who came to Egypt with Jacob, each of his household.
**2:** Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah,
**3:** Issachar, Zebulun, and Benjamin,
**4:** Dan and Naphtali, Gad and Asher.
**5:** All the descendants of Jacob were seventy persons; Joseph was already in Egypt.
**6:** Then Joseph died, and all his brothers and all that generation.
**7:** But the people of Israel were fruitful and increased greatly, they multiplied and grew exceedingly strong, so that the land was filled with them.

## Pharaoh Oppresses Israel

**8:** Now there arose a new king over Egypt, who did not know Joseph.
**9:** And he said to his people, "Behold, the people of Israel are too many and too mighty for us.
**10:** Come, let us deal shrewdly with them, lest they multiply, and, if war breaks out, they join our enemies and fight against us and escape from the land."
**11:** Therefore they set taskmasters over them to afflict them with heavy burdens. They built for Pharaoh store cities, Pithom and Raamses.
**12:** But the more they were oppressed, the more they multiplied and the more they spread abroad. And the Egyptians were in dread of the people of Israel.
**13:** So they ruthlessly made the people of Israel work as slaves
**14:** and made their lives bitter and with hard service, in mortar and brick, and in all kinds of work in the field. In all their work they ruthlessly made them work as slaves.

**15:** Then the king of Egypt said to the Hebrew midwives, one of whom was named Shiphrah and the other Puah,
**16:** "When you serve as midwife to the Hebrew women and see them on the birthstool, if it is a son, you shall kill him, but if it is a daughter, shall he live."
**17:** But the midwives feared God and did not do as the king of Egypt commanded them, but let the male children live.
**18:** So the king of Egypt called the midwives and said to them, "Why have you done this, and let the male children live?"
**19:** The midwives said to Pharaoh, "Because the Hebrew women are not ilke the Egyptian women, for they are vigorous and give birth before the midwife comes to them."
**20:** So God dealt well with the midwives. And the people multiplied and grew very strong.
**21:** And because the midwives feared God, he gave them families.
**22:** Then Pharaoh commanded all his people, "Every son that is born to the Hebrews you shall cast into the Nile, but you shall let every daughter live."


id: 11043835906b4bb0b4331bdf74498203
parent_id: aa464f60f0a04775889e7d93371e9352
created_time: 2024-02-15T10:57:49.088Z
updated_time: 2024-02-16T00:05:17.508Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 32.51494690
longitude: -117.03824710
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 0
user_created_time: 2024-02-15T10:57:49.088Z
user_updated_time: 2024-02-16T00:05:17.508Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
deleted_time: 0
type_: 1