Chapter 12

# Chapter 12
## A Living Sacrifice
**Verses 1-2**
**1:** I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship.
**2:** Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect.

## Gifts of Grace
**Verses 3-8**
**3:** For by the grace given to me I say to everyone among you not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think with sober judgment, each according to the measure of faith that God has assigned.
**4:** For as in one body we have many members, and the members do not all have the same function,
**5:** so we, though many, are one body in Christ, and individually members one of another.
**6:** Having gifts that differ according to the grace given to us, let us use them: if prophecy, in proportion to our faith;
**7:** if service, in our serving; the one who teaches, in his teaching;
**8:** the one who exhorts, in his exhortation; the one who contributes, in generosity; the one who leads, with zeal; the one who does acts of mercy, with cheerfulness.

## Marks of the True Christian
**Verses 9-21**
**9:** Let love be genuine. Abhor what is evil; hold fast to what is good.
**10:** Love one another with brotherly affection. Outdo one another in showing honor.
**11:** Do not be slothful in zeal, be fervent in spirit, serve the Lord.
**12:** Rejoice in hope, be patient in tribulation, be constant in prayer.
**13:** Contribute to the needs of the saints and seek to show hospitality.

**14:** Bless those who persecute you; bless and do not curse them.
**15:** Rejoice with those who rejoice, weep with those who weep.
**16:** Live in harmony with one another. Do not be haughty, but associate with the lowly. Never be wise in your own sight.
**17:** Repay no one evil for evil, but give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all.
**18:** If possible, so far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all.
**19:** Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God, for it is written, "Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord."
**20:** To the contrary, "if your enemy is hungry, feed him; if he is thirsty, give him something to drink; for by doing so you will heap burning coals on his head."
**21:** Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good.

# Footnotes
<ol type='a'>
	<li>Romans 12:1 Or brothers and sisters</li>
	<li>Romans 12:1 Or your rational service</li>
	<li>Romans 12:2 Greek age</li>
	<li>Romans 12:2 Or what is the good and acceptable and perfect will of God</li>
	<li>Romans 12:4 Greek parts; also verse 5</li>
	<li>Romans 12:8 Or gives aid</li>
	<li>Romans 12:11 Or fervent in the Spirit</li>
	<li>Romans 12:16 Or give yourselves to humble tasks</li>
	<li>Romans 12:19 Greek give place</li>
</ol>


id: 1904039bb518451f9b137e41ba5aa1a9
parent_id: ae725115977448fd8337958e5a54ea09
created_time: 2023-09-22T01:15:41.331Z
updated_time: 2023-09-22T23:44:07.549Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 32.51494690
longitude: -117.03824710
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 0
user_created_time: 2023-09-22T01:15:41.331Z
user_updated_time: 2023-09-22T23:44:07.549Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
deleted_time: 0
type_: 1