Chapter 16

# Chapter 16

## Sarai and Hagar

**1:** Now Sarai, Abram's wife, had borne him no children. She had a female Egyptian servant whose name was Hagar.
**2:** And Sarai said to Abram, "Behold, now, the LORD has prevented me from bearing children. Go in to my servant; it may be that I shall obtain children by her." And Abram listened to the voice of Sarai.
**3:** So, after Abram had lived ten years in the land of Canaan, Sarai, Abram's wife, took Hagar the Egyptian, her servant, and gave her to Abram her husband as a wife.
**4:** And he went in to Hagar, and she conceived. And when she saw that she had conceived, she looked with contempt on her mistress.
**5:** And Sarai said to Abram, "May the wrong done to me be on you! I gave my servant to your embrace, and when she saw that she had conceived, she looked at me with contempt. May the LORD judge between you and me!"
**6:** But Abram said to Sarai, "Behold, your servant is in your power; do to her as you please." Then Sarai dealt harshly with her, and she fled from her.
**7:** The angel of the LORD found her by a spring of water in the wilderness, the spring on the way to Shur.
**8:** And he said, "Hagar, servant of Sarai, where have you come from and where are you going?" She said, "I am fleeing from my mistress Sarai." 
**9:** The angel of the LORD said to her, "Return to your mistress and submit to her."
**10:** The angel of the LORD also said to her, "I will surely multiply your offspring so that they cannot be numbered for multitude."
**11-12:** And the angel of the LORD said ot her,
> "Behold, you are pregnant
> and shall bear a son.
> You shall call his name Ishmael, because the LORD has listened to your affliction.
> He shall be a wild donkey of a man,
> his hand against everyone
> and everyone's hand against him,
> and he shall dwell over against all his kinsmen."

**13:** So she called the name of the LORD who spoke to her, "You are a God of seeing,"
**14:** Therefore the well was called Beer-lahai-roi; it lies between Kadesh and Bered.

**15:** And Hagar bore Abram a son, and Abram called the name of his son, whom Hagar bore, Ishmael.
**16:** Abram was eighty-six years old when Hagar bore Ishmael to Abram.


id: 388f37d405ba43169807e86dbf9cb758
parent_id: dd250cd0c2504220ba72c04b943ad7d6
created_time: 2024-02-12T04:53:12.737Z
updated_time: 2024-02-12T05:08:00.998Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 32.51494690
longitude: -117.03824710
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 0
user_created_time: 2024-02-12T04:53:12.737Z
user_updated_time: 2024-02-12T05:08:00.998Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
deleted_time: 0
type_: 1