Chapter 28

# Chapter 28

## Jacob Sent to Laban

**1:** Then Isaac called Jacob and blessed him and directed him, "You must not take a wife from the Canaanite women.
**2:** Arise, go to Paddan-aram to the house of Bethuel your mother's father, and take as your wife from there one of the daughters of Laban your mother's brother.
**3:** God Almighty bless you and make you fruitful and multiply you, that you may become a company of peoples.
**4:** May he give the blessing of Abraham to you and to your offspring with you, that you may take possession of the land of your sojournings that God gave to Abraham!"
**5:** Thus Isaac sent Jacob awaym. And he went to Paddan-aram, to Laban, the son of Bethuel the Aramean, the brother of Rebekah, Jacob's and Esau's mother.

## Esau Marries an Ishmaelite

**6:** Now Esau saw that Isaaac had blessed Jacob and sent him away to Paddan-aram to take a wife from there, and that as he blessed him he directed him, "You must not take a wife from the Canaanite women,"
**7:** and that Jacob had obeyed his father and his mother and gone to Paddan-aram.
**8:** So when 
**9:** Esau went to Ishmael and took as his wife, besides the wives that he had, Mahalath the daughter of Ishmael, Abraham's son, the sister of Nebaloth.

## Jacob's Dream

**10:** Jacob left Beersheba and went toward Haran.
**11:** And he came to a certain place and stayed there that night, because the sun had set.
**12:** And he dreamed, and behold, there was a ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven. And behold, the angels of God were ascending and descending on it!
**13:** And behold, the LORD stood above it and said,"I am the LORD, the God of Abraham your father and the God of Isaac. The land on which you lie I will give to you and to your offspring.
**14:** Your offspring shall be like the dust of the earth, and you shall spread abroad to the west and to the east and to the north and to the south; and in you and your offspring shall all the families of the earth be blessed.
**15:** Behold, I am with you and will keep you wherever you go, and will bring you back to this land. For I will not leave you until I have done what I have promised you."
**16:** Then Jacob awoke from his sleep and said, "Surely the LORD is in this place, and I did not know it."
**17:** And he was afraid and said, "How awesome is this place! This is none other than the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven."

**18:** So early in the morning Jacob took the stone that he had put under his head and set it up for a pillar and poured oil on the top of it.
**19:** He called the name of that Bethel, but the name of the city was Luz at first.
**20:** Then Jacob made a vow, saying, "If God will be with me and will keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to eat and clothing to wear,
**21:** so that I come again to my father's house in peace, then the LORD shall be my God,
**22:** and this stone, which I have set up for a pillar, shall be God's house. And of all that you give me I will give a full tenth to you."

id: 39f26e0930514636b648fb50e3192002
parent_id: dd250cd0c2504220ba72c04b943ad7d6
created_time: 2024-02-13T03:23:55.125Z
updated_time: 2024-02-13T06:43:00.742Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 32.52983390
longitude: -116.86457320
altitude: 112.2000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-mobile
application_data: 
order: 1707794635118
user_created_time: 2024-02-13T03:23:55.125Z
user_updated_time: 2024-02-13T06:43:00.742Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
deleted_time: 0
type_: 1