Chapter 3

# Chapter 3

## Jesus Greater Than Moses

**Verses 1-6**
**1:** Therefore, holy brothers, you who share in a heavenly calling, consider Jesus, the apostle and high priest of our confession,
**2:** who was faithful to him who appointed him, just as Moses also was faithful in all God's house.
**3:** For Jesus has been counted worthy of more glory than Moses—as much more glory as the builder of a house has more honor than the house itself.
**4:** (For every house is built by someone, but the builder of all things is God.)
**5:** Now Moses was faithful in all God's house as a servant, to testify to the things that were to be spoken later,
**6:** but Christ is faithful over God's house as a son. And we are his house, if indeed we hold fast our confidence and our boasting in our hope.

## A Rest for the People of God

**Verses 7-19**
**7:** Therefore, as the Holy Spirit says,
**8-11:** 
> "Today, if you hear his voice,
> do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion,
> on the day of testing in the wilderness,
> where your fathers put me to the test
> and saw my works for forty years.
> Therefore I was provoked with that generation,
> and said, 'They always go astray in their heart;
> they have not known my ways.'
> As I swore in my wrath,
> 'They shall not enter my rest.'"

**12:** Take care, brothers, lest there be any of you in evil, unbelieving heart, leading you to fall away from the living God.
**13:** But exhort one another every day, as long as it is called "today," that none of you may be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin.
**14:** For we have come to share in Christ, if indeed we hold our original confidence firm to the end.
**15:** As it is said,
> "Today, if you hear his voice,
> do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion."

**16:** For those who heard and yet rebelled? Was it not all those who left Egypt led by Moses?
**17:** And with whom was he provoked for forty years? Was it not with those who sinned, whose bodies fell in the wilderness?
**18:** And to whom did he swear that they would not enter his rest, but to those who were disobedient?
**19:** So we see that they were unable to enter because of unbelief.

## Footnotes

<ol type='a'>
	<li>Hebrews 3:1 Or brothers and sisters; also verse 12</li>
	<li>Hebrews 3:2 Greek his; also verses 5, 6</li>
	<li>Hebrews 3:6 Some manuscripts insert firm to the end</li>
</ol>


id: 42820ad3896d4b49a2156ce37e5fcea8
parent_id: a4a99ba7bd944d89bc281c44ca4427c1
created_time: 2023-10-21T05:07:32.095Z
updated_time: 2023-10-24T02:19:27.241Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 0.00000000
longitude: 0.00000000
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 1697864903012
user_created_time: 2023-10-21T05:07:32.095Z
user_updated_time: 2023-10-24T02:19:27.241Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
deleted_time: 0
type_: 1