Chapter 14

# Chapter 14

## The Lamb and the 144,000

**Verses 1-5**
**1:** Then I looked, and behold, on Mount Zion stood on the Lamb, and with him 144,000 who had his name and his Father's name written on their foreheads.
**2:** And I heard a voice from heaven like the roar of many waters and like the sound of loud thunder. The voice I heard was like the sound of harpists playing on their harps,
**3:** and they were singing a new song before the throne and before the four living creatures and before the elders. No one could learn that song except the 144,000 who had been redeemed from the earth.
**4:** It is these who have not defiled themselves with women, for they are virgins. It is these who follow the Lamb wherever he goes. These have been redeemed from mankind as firstfruits for God and the Lamb,
**5:** and in their mouth no lie was found, for they are blameless.

## The Messages of the Three Angels

**Verses 6-**
**6:** Then I saw another angel flying directly overhead, with an eternal gospel to proclaim to those who dwell on earth, to every nation and tribe and language and people.
**7:** And he said with a loud voice, "Fear God and give him glory, because the hour of his judgment has come, and worship him who made heaven and earth, the sea and the springs of water."

**8:** Another angel, a second, followed, saying, "Fallen, fallen is Babylon the great, she who made all nations drink the wine of the passion of her sexual immorality."

**9:** And another angel, a third, followed them, saying with a loud voice, "If anyone worships the beast and its image and receives the mark on his forehead or on his hand,
**10:** he also will drink the wine of God's wrath, poured full strength into the cup of his anger, and he will be tormented with fire and sulfur in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb.
**11:** And the smoke of their torment goes up forever and ever, and they have no rest, day or night, these worshipers of the beast and its image, and whoever receives the mark of its name."

**12:** Here is a call for the endurance of the saints, those who keep the commandments of God and their faith in Jesus.

**13:** And I heard a voice from heaven, saying, "Write this: Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on." "Blessed indeed," says the Spirit, "that they may rest from their labors, for their deeds follow them!"

## The Harvest of the Earth

**Verses 14-**
**14:** Then I looked, and behold, a white cloud, and seated on the cloud one like a son of man, with a golden crown on his head, and a sharp sickle in his hand.
**15:** And another angel came out of the temple, calling with a loud voice to him who sat on the cloud, "Put in your sickle, and reap, for the hour to reap has come, for the harvest of the earth is fully ripe."
**16:** So he who sat on the cloud swung his sickle across the earth, and the earth was reaped.

**17:** Then another angel came out of the temple in heaven, and he too had a sharp sickle.
**18:** And another angel came out from the altar, the angel who has authority over the fire, and he called with a loud voice to the one who had sharp sickle, "Put in your sickle and gather the clusters from the vine of the earth, for its grapes are ripe."
**19:** So the angel swung his sickle across the earth and gathered the grape harvest of the earth and threw it into the great winepress of the wrath of God,
**20:** And the winepress was trodden outside the city, and blood flowed from the winepress, as high as the horse's bridle, for 1,600 stadia.

## Footnotes

<ol type='a'>
	<li>Revelation 14:8 Or wrath</li>
	<li>Revelation 14:12 Greek and the faith of Jesus</li>
	<li>Revelation 14:20 About 184 miles; a stadion was about 607 feet or 185 meters</li>
</ol>


id: 5c838858d1f14b808112833b80daf8ca
parent_id: 889cc45105b841888927d25c9b235bd3
created_time: 2023-11-03T03:16:58.511Z
updated_time: 2023-12-04T02:30:48.860Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 0.00000000
longitude: 0.00000000
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 1698981607922
user_created_time: 2023-11-03T03:16:58.511Z
user_updated_time: 2023-12-04T02:30:48.860Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
deleted_time: 0
type_: 1