Chapter 2

# Chapter 2
## 
**Verses 1-4**
**1:** For I made up my mind not to make another painful visit for you.
**2:** For if I cause you pain, who is there to make me glad but the one whom I have pained?
**3:** And I wrote as I did, so that when I came I might not suffer pain from those who should have made me rejoice, for I felt sure of all of you, that my joy would be the joy of you all.
**4:** For I wrote to you out of much affliction and anguish of heart and with many tears, not to cause you pain but to let you know the abundant love that I have for you.

## Forgive the Sinner
**Verses 5-11**
**5:** Now if anyone has caused pain, he has caused it not to me, but in some measure—not to put it too severely—to all of you.
**6:** For such a one, this punishment by the majority is enough,
**7:** so you should rather turn to forgive and comfort him, or he may be overwhelmed by excessive sorrow.
**8:** So I beg you to reaffirm your love for him.
**9:** For this is why I wrote, that I might test you and know whether you are obedient in everything
**10:** Anyone whom you forgive, I also forgive. Indeed, what have I forgiven, if I have forgiven anything, has been for your sake in the presence of Christ,
**11:** so that we would not be outwitted by Satan; for we are not ignorant of his designs.

## Triumph in Christ
**Verses 12-17**
**12:** When I came to Toras to preach the gospel of Christ, even though a door was opened for me in the Lord,
**13:** my spirit was was not at rest because I did not find my brother Titus there. So I took leave of them and went on to Macedonia.

**14:** But thanks be to God, who in Christ always leads us in triumphal procession, and through us spreads the fragrance of the knowledge of him everywhere.
**15:** For we are the aroma of Christ to God among those who are being saved and among those who are perishing,
**16:** to one a fragrance from death to death, to other a fragrance from life to life. Who is sufficient for these things?
**17:** For we are not, like so many, peddlers of God's word, but as men of sincerity, as commissioned by God, in the sight of God we speak in Christ.


id: 65a2408cd9994c71ab5f39c6f498df8b
parent_id: f3cf5475774f4c51b7bf7828f5d6a965
created_time: 2023-09-27T20:34:24.766Z
updated_time: 2023-09-29T00:35:18.199Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 32.51494690
longitude: -117.03824710
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 0
user_created_time: 2023-09-27T20:34:24.766Z
user_updated_time: 2023-09-29T00:35:18.199Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
deleted_time: 0
type_: 1