Chapter 3

# Chapter 3

## Laws for Peace Offerings

**1:** "If his offering is a sacrifice of peace offering, if he offers an animal from the herd, male or female, he shall offer it without blemish before the LORD.
**2:** And he shall lay his hand on the head of his offering and kill it at the entrance of the tent of meeting, and Aaron's sons the priests shall throw the blood against the sides of the altar.
**3:** And from the sacrifice of the peace offering, as a food offering to the LORD, he shall offer the fat covering the entrails and all the fat that is on the entrails,
**4:** and the two kidneys with the fat that is on them at the loins, and the long lobe of the liver that he shall remove with the kidneys.
**5:** Then Aaron's sons shall burn it on the altar on top of the burnt offering, which is on the wood on the fire, it is a food offering with a pleasing aroma to the LORD."

**6:** "If his offering for a sacrifice of peace offring to the LORD is an animal from the flock, male or female, he shall offer it without blemish.
**7:** If he offers a lamb for his offering, then he shall offer it before the LORD,
**8:** lay his hand on the head of his offering, and kill it in front of the tent of meeting; and Aaron's sons shall throw its blood against the sides the altar.
**9:** Then from the sacrifice of the peace offering he shall offer as a food offering to the LORD its fat; he shall remove the whole fat tail, cut off close to the backbone, and the fat that covers the entrails and all the fat that is on the entrails
**10:** and the two kidneys with the fat that is on them at the loins and the long lobe of the liver that he shall remove with the kidneys.
**11:** And the priest shall burn it on the altar as a food offering to the LORD."

**12:** "If his offering is a goat, then he shall offer it before the LORD
**13:** and lay his hand on its head and kill it in front of the tent of meeting, and the sons of Aaron shall throw its blood agains the sides of the altar.
**14:** Then he shall offer from it, as his offering for a food offering to the LORD, the fat covering the entrails and all the fat that is on the entrails
**15:** and the two kidneys with the fat that is on them at the loins and the long lobe of liver that he shall remove with the kidneys.
**16:** And the priest shall burn them on the altar as a food offering with a pleasing aroma. All fat is the LORD's.
**17:** It shall be a statute forever throughout your generations, in all your dwelling places, that you eat neither fat nor blood."


id: 6ab1bf900a484883a9340994dfdbb5fa
parent_id: 2b4e8a288ffd42deba3525964f24333a
created_time: 2024-03-01T00:12:23.624Z
updated_time: 2024-03-01T00:12:25.620Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 32.51494690
longitude: -117.03824710
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 0
user_created_time: 2024-03-01T00:12:23.624Z
user_updated_time: 2024-03-01T00:12:25.620Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
deleted_time: 0
type_: 1