Chapter 3

# Chapter 3

## Godlessness in the Last Days

**Verses 1-9**
**1:** But understand this, that in the last days there will come times of difficulty.
**2:** For people will be lovers of self, lovers of money, proud, arrogant, abusive, disobedient to their parents, ungrateful, unholy,
**3:** heartless, unappeasable, slanderous, without self-control, brutal, not loving good,
**4:** treacherous, reckless, swollen with conceit, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God,
**5:** having the appearance of godliness, but denying its power. Avoid such people.
**6:** For among them are those who creep into households and capture weak women, burdened with sins and led astray by various passions,
**7:** always learning and never able to arrive at a knowledge of the truth.
**8:** Just as Jannes and Jambres opposed Moses, so these men also oppose the truth, men corrupted in mind and disqualified regarding the faith.
**9:** But they will not get very far, for their folly will be plain to all, as was that of those two men.

## All Scripture Is Breathed Out by God

**Verses 10-17**
**10:** You, however, have followed my teaching, my conduct, my aim in life, my faith, my patience, my love, my steadfastness,
**11:** my persecutions and sufferings that happened to me at Antioch, at Iconium, and at Lystra—which persecutions I endured; yet from all the Lord rescued me.
**12:** Indeed, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted,
**13:** while evil people and imposters will go from bad to worse, deceiving and being deceived.
**14:** But as for you, continue in what you have learned and have firmly believed, knowing from whom you learned it
**15:** and how from childhood you have been acquainted with the sacred writing, which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus.
**16:** All scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness,
**17:** that the man of God may be complete, equipped for every good work.

## Footnotes

<ol type='a'>
	<li>2 Timothy 3:14 The Greek for whom is plural</li>
	<li>2 Timothy 3:17 That is, a messenger of God (the phrase echoes a common Old Testament expression)</li>
</ol>


id: 6e41261bfed84d39ada244c3fcd26af5
parent_id: 51be6410cf864c4f8c670278a7efe4df
created_time: 2023-10-17T01:20:30.279Z
updated_time: 2023-10-20T12:09:12.306Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 0.00000000
longitude: 0.00000000
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 1697505700879
user_created_time: 2023-10-17T01:20:30.279Z
user_updated_time: 2023-10-20T12:09:12.306Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
deleted_time: 0
type_: 1