Chapter 1

# Chapter 1

## Greeting

**Verses 1-4**
**1:** Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ, for the sake of the faith of God's elect and their knowledge of the truth, which accords with godliness,
**2:** in hope of eternal life, which God, who never lies, promised before the ages began
**3:** and at the proper time manifested in his word through the preaching with which I have been entrusted by the command of God our Savior;

**4:** To Titus, my true child in a common faith:

Grace and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Savior.

## Qualifications for Elders

**Verses 5-16**
**5:** This is why I left you in Crete, so that you might put what remained into order, and appoint elders in every town as I directed you—
**6:** if anyone is above reproach, the husband of one wife, and his children are believers and not open to the charge of debauchery or insubordination.
**7:** For an overseer, as God's steward, must be above reproach. He must not be arrogant or quick-tempered or a drunkard or violent or greedy for gain,
**8:** but hospitable, a lover of good, self-controlled, upright, holy, and disciplined.
**9:** He must hold firm to the trustworthy word as taught, so that he may be able to give instruction in sound doctrine and also to rebuke those who contradict it.

**10:** For there are many who are insubordinate, empty talkers and deceivers, especially those of the circumcision party.
**11:** They must be silenced, since they are upsetting whole families by teaching for shameful gain what they ought not to teach.
**12:** One of the Cretans, a prophet of their own, said, "Cretans are always liars, evil beasts, lazy gluttons."
**13:** This testimony is true. Therefore rebuke them sharply, that they may be sound in the faith,
**14:** not devoting themselves to Jewish myths and the commands of people who turn away from the truth.
**15:** To the pure, all things are pure; but both their minds and their consciences are defiled.
**16:** They profess to know God, but they deny him by their works. They are detestable, disobedient, unfit for any good work.

## Footnotes

<ol type='a'>
	<li>Titus 1:1 For the contextual rendering of the Greek word doulos, see Preface</li>
	<li>Titus 1:2 Greek before times eternal</li>
	<li>Titus 1:3 Or manifested his word</li>
	<li>Titus 1:6 Or a man of one woman</li>
	<li>Titus 1:6 Or are faithful</li>
	<li>Titus 1:7 Or bishop; Greek episkopos</li>
	<li>Titus 1:9 Or healthy; also verse 13</li>
	<li>Titus 1:10 Or especially those of the circumcision</li>
	<li>Titus 1:12 Greek One of them</li>
	<li>Titus 1:12 Probably from Epimenides of Crete</li>
</ol>


id: 7223dc2e94514d0188935fa4bb157f01
parent_id: 0d2d282d75f64253870465e9a75bfa3f
created_time: 2023-10-20T12:21:21.689Z
updated_time: 2023-10-21T03:06:55.575Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 0.00000000
longitude: 0.00000000
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 1697805012131
user_created_time: 2023-10-20T12:21:21.689Z
user_updated_time: 2023-10-21T03:06:55.575Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
deleted_time: 0
type_: 1