Chapter 4

# Chapter 4

**Verses 1-1**
**1:** Masters, treat your bondservants justly and fairly, knowing that you also have a Master in heaven.

## Further Instructions

**Verses 2-6**
**2:** Continue steadfastly in prayer, being watchful in it with thanksgiving.
**3:** At the same time, pray also for us, that God may open to us a door for the word, to declare the mystery of Christ, on account of which I am in prison—
**4:** that I may make it clear, which is how I ought to speak.

**5:** Walk in wisdom toward outsiders, making the best use of time.
**6:** Let your speech always be gracious, seasoned with salt, so that you may know how you ought to answer each person.

## Final Greetings

**Verses 7-18**
**7:** Tychicus will tell you all about my activities. He is a beloved brother and faithful minister and fellow servant in the Lord.
**8:** I have sent him to you for this very purpose, that you may know how we are and that he may encourage your hearts,
**9:** and with him Onesimus, our faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you. They will tell you of everything that has taken place here.

**10:** Aristarchus my fellow prisoner greets you, and Mark the cousin of Barnabas (concerning whom you have received instructions—if he comes to you, welcome him),
**11:** and Jesus who is called Justus. These are the only men of the circumcision among my fellow workers for the kingdom of God, and they have been a comfort to me.
**12:** Epaphras, who is one of you, a servant of Christ Jesus, greets you, always struggling on your behalf in his prayers, that you may stand mature and fully assured in all the will of God.
**13:** For I bear him witness that he has worked hard for you and for those in Laodicea and in Hierapolis.
**14:** Luke the beloved physician greets you, as does Demas.
**15:** Give my greetings to the brothers at Laodicea, and to Nympha and the church in her house.
**16:** And when this letter has been read among you, have it also read in the church of the Laodiceans; and see that you also read the letter from Laodicea.
**17:** And say to Archippus, "See that you fulfill the ministry that you have received in the Lord."

**18:** I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand. Remember my chains. Grace be with you.

## Footnotes

<ol type='a'>
	<li>Colossians 4:1 For the contextual rendering of the Greek word doulos, see Preface; likewise for servant in verse 12</li>
	<li>Colossians 4:7 For the contextual rendering of the Greek word sundoulos, see Preface</li>
	<li>Colossians 4:15 Or brothers and sisters</li>
</ol>


id: 7825fb1b2f9e4fc6836b905368416b4f
parent_id: 01bc33f20bea406b8b46af9a87383af2
created_time: 2023-10-06T23:26:42.983Z
updated_time: 2023-10-06T23:26:43.998Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 32.51494690
longitude: -117.03824710
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 0
user_created_time: 2023-10-06T23:26:42.983Z
user_updated_time: 2023-10-06T23:26:43.998Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
deleted_time: 0
type_: 1