Chapter 1

# Chapter 1
## Greeting
**Verses 1-5**
**1:** Paul, an apostle—not from men nor through men, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised him from the dead—
**2:** and all the brothers who are with me,

To the churches of Galatia:

**3:** Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ,
**4:** who gave himself for our sins to deliver us from the present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father,
**5:** to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen.

## No Other Gospel
**Verses 6-10**
**6:** I am astonished that you are so quickly deserting him who called you in the grace of Christ and are turning to a different gospel—
**7:** not that there is another one, but there are some who trouble you and want to distort the gospel of Christ
**8:** But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to the one we preached to you, let him be accursed.
**9:** As we have said before, so now I say again: if anyone is preaching to you a gospel contrary to the one you received, let him be accursed.

**10:** For am I now seeking the approval of man, or of God? Or am I trying to please man? If I were still trying to please man, I would not be a servant of Christ.

## Paul Called by God
**Verses 11-24**
**11:** For I would have you know, brothers, that the gospel that was preached by me is not man's gospel.
**12:** For I did not receive it from any man, nor was I taught it, but I received it through a revelation of Jesus Christ.
**13:** For you have heard of my former life in Judaism, how I persecuted the church of God violently and tried to destroy it.
**14:** And I was advancing in Judaism beyond many of my own age among my people, so extremely zealous was I for the traditions of my fathers.
**15:** But when he who had set me apart before I was born, and who called me by his grace,
**16:** was pleased to reveal his Son to me, in order that I might preach him among the Gentiles, I did not immediately consult with anyone,
**17:** nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me, but I went away into Arabia, and returned again to Damascus.

**18:** Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to visit Cephas and remained with him fifteen days.
**19:** But I saw none of the other apostles except James the Lord's brother.
**20:** (In what I am writing to you, before God, I do not lie!)
**21:** Then I went into the regions of Syria and Cilicia.
**22:** And I was still unknown in person to the churches of Judea that are in Christ.
**23:** They only were hearing it said, "He who used to persecute us is now preaching the faith he once tried to destroy."
**24:** And they glorified God because of me.

# Footnotes
<ol type='a'>
	<li>Galatians 1:2 Or brothers and sisters. In New Testament usage, depending on the context, the plural Greek word adelphoi (translated “brothers”) may refer either to brothers or to brothers and sisters; also verse 11</li>
	<li>Galatians 1:10 For the contextual rendering of the Greek word doulos, see Preface</li>
	<li>Galatians 1:11 Greek not according to man</li>
	<li>Galatians 1:15 Greek set me apart from my mother&#x27;s womb</li>
	<li>Galatians 1:16 Greek in</li>
	<li>Galatians 1:16 Greek with flesh and blood</li>
</ol>


id: 834fd727a76e423496b67fd84b49a304
parent_id: 9cf934110ed647a2aae26b81ca5c7c35
created_time: 2023-09-30T02:32:38.772Z
updated_time: 2023-09-30T05:22:28.946Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 32.51494690
longitude: -117.03824710
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 0
user_created_time: 2023-09-30T02:32:38.772Z
user_updated_time: 2023-09-30T05:22:28.946Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
deleted_time: 0
type_: 1