Chapter 4

# Chapter 4

## Warning Against Worldliness

**Verses 1-**
**1:** What causes quarrels and what causes fights among you? Is it not this, that your passions are at war within you?
**2:** You desire and do not have, so you murder. You covet and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. You do not have, because you do not ask.
**3:** You ask and do not receive, because you ask wrongly, to spend it on your passions.
**4:** You adulterous people! Do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Therefore whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God.
**5:** Or do you suppose it is to no purpose that the Scripture says, "He yearns jealously over the spirit that he has made to dwell in us?"
**6:** But he gives more grace. Therefore it says, "God opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble."
**7:** Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you.
**8:** Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded.
**9:** Be wretched and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to gloom.
**10:** Humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will exalt you.

**11:** Do not speak evil against one another, brothers. The one who speaks against a brother or judges his brother, speaks evil against a brother or judges his brother, speaks evil against the law, you are not a doer of the law but a judge.
**12:** There is only one lawgiver and judge, he who is able to save and to destroy. But who are you to judge your neighbor?

## Boasting About Tomorrow

**Verses 13-**
**13:** Come now, you who say, "Today or tomorrow we will go into such and such a town and spend a year there and trade and make a profit”—
**14:** yet you do not know what tomorrow will bring. What is your life? For you are a mist that appears for a little time and then vanishes.
**15:** Instead you ought to say, "If the Lord wills, we will live and do this or that."
**16:** As it is, you boast in your arrogance. All such boasting is evil.
**17:** So whoever knows the right thing to do and fails to do it, for him it is sin.

## Footnotes

<ol type='a'>
	<li>James 4:1 Greek pleasures; also verse 3</li>
	<li>James 4:1 Greek in your members</li>
	<li>James 4:4 Or You adulteresses!</li>
	<li>James 4:11 Or brothers and sisters</li>
</ol>


id: 8aba1390eb274da5aa194dd39b8a1bb2
parent_id: f685421f6453452f943b5be4cfc171af
created_time: 2023-10-30T09:40:50.528Z
updated_time: 2023-11-01T02:19:46.497Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 0.00000000
longitude: 0.00000000
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 1698658937860
user_created_time: 2023-10-30T09:40:50.528Z
user_updated_time: 2023-11-01T02:19:46.497Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
deleted_time: 0
type_: 1