Chapter 1

# Chapter 1

## Greeting

**Verses 1-**
**1:** The elder to the beloved Gaius, whom I love in truth.

**2:** Beloved, I pray that all may go well with you and that you may be in good health, as it goes well withyour
**3:** 
**4:** I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in the truth.

## Support and Opposition

**Verses 4-**
**5:** Beloved, it is a faithful thing you do in all your efforts for these brothers, strangers as they are,
**6:** who testified to your love before the church. You will do well to send them on their journey in a manner worthy of God.
**7:** For they have gone out for the sake of the name, accepting nothing from the Gentiles.
**8:** Therefore we ought to support people like these, that we may be fellow workers for the truth.

**9:** I have written something to the church, but Diotrephes, who likes to put himself first, does not acknowledge our authority.
**10:** So if I come, I will bring up what he is doing, talking wicked nonsense against us. And not content with that, he refuses to welcome the brothers, and also stops those who want to and puts them out of the church.

**11:** Beloved, do not imitate evil but imitate good. Whoever does good is from God, whoever does evil has not seen God.
**12:** Demetrius has received a good testimony from everyone, and from the truth itself. We also add our testimony, and you know that our testimony is true.


## Final Greetings

**Verses 13-15**
**13:** I had much to write to you, but I would rather not write with pen and ink.
**14:** I hope to see you soon, and we will talk face to face.

**15:** Peace be to you. The friends greet you. Greet the friends, each by name.

## Footnotes

<ol type='a'>
	<li>3 John 1:3 Or brothers and sisters. In New Testament usage, depending on the context, the plural Greek word adelphoi (translated “brothers”) may refer either to brothers or to brothers and sisters; also verses 5, 10</li>
</ol>


id: 912df232bba4453290aba02d8e37f70d
parent_id: eee2ebab6d114dc8b4efaed7603d8c00
created_time: 2023-11-03T03:16:38.623Z
updated_time: 2023-11-06T22:42:23.844Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 0.00000000
longitude: 0.00000000
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 1698981515935
user_created_time: 2023-11-03T03:16:38.623Z
user_updated_time: 2023-11-06T22:42:23.844Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
deleted_time: 0
type_: 1