Chapter 2

# Chapter 2

## Pray for All People

**Verses 1-15**
**1:** First of all, then, I urge that supplication, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgiving be made for all people,
**2:** for kings and all who are in high positions, that we may lead a peaceful and quiet life, godly and dignified in every way.
**3:** This is good, and it is pleasing in the sight of God our Savior,
**4:** who desires all people to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth.
**5:** For there is one God, and there is one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus,
**6:** who gave himself as a ransom for all, which is the testimony given at the proper time.
**7:** For this I was appointed a preacher and an apostle (I am telling the truth, I am not lying.), a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth.

**8:** I desire then that in every place men should pray, lifting holy hands without anger or quarreling;
**9:** likewise also that women should adorn themselves in respectable apparel, with modesty and self-control, not with braided hair and gold or pearls or costly attire,
**10:** but with what is proper for women who profess godliness—with good works.
**11:** Let a woman learn quietly with all submissiveness.
**12:** I do not permit a woman to teach or to exercise authority over a man; rather, she is to remain quiet.
**13:** For Adam was formed first, then Eve;
**14:** and Adam was not deceived, but the woman was deceived and became a transgressor.
**15:** Yet she will be saved through childbearing—if they continue in faith and love and holiness, with self-control.

## Footnotes

<ol type='a'>
	<li>1 Timothy 2:5 men and man render the same Greek word that is translated people in verses 1 and 4</li>
</ol>


id: 9bf6e7019bef42fd83bb55b949ed121f
parent_id: 45f435ea63164663b49e4cd00ab9c242
created_time: 2023-10-13T03:15:42.166Z
updated_time: 2023-10-14T00:28:43.346Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 32.51494690
longitude: -117.03824710
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 0
user_created_time: 2023-10-13T03:15:42.166Z
user_updated_time: 2023-10-14T00:28:43.346Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
deleted_time: 0
type_: 1