Chapter 4

# Chapter 4

## Some Will Depart from the Faith

**Verses 1-5**
**1:** Now the Spirit expressly says that in later times some will depart from the faith by devoting themselves to deceitful spirits and teachings of demons,
**2:** through the insincerity of liars whose consciences are seared,
**3:** who forbid marriage and require abstinence from foods that God created to be received with thanksgiving by those who believe and know the truth.
**4:** For everything created by God is good, and nothing is to be rejected if it is received with thanksgiving,
**5:** for it is made holy by the word of God and prayer.

## A Good Servant of Christ Jesus

**Verses 6-16**
**6:** If you put these things before the brothers, you will be a good servant of Christ Jesus, being trained in the words of faith and of the good doctrine that you have followed.
**7:** Have nothing to do with irreverent, silly myths. Rather train yourself for godliness;
**8:** for while bodily training is of some value, godliness is of value in every way, as it holds promise for the present life and also for the life to come.
**9:**  The saying is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance.
**10:** For to this end we toil and strive, because we have our hope set on the living God, who is the Savior of all people, especially of those who believe.

**11:** Command and teach these things.
**12:** Let no one despise you for your youth, but set the believers an example in speech, in conduct, in love, in faith, in purity.
**13:** Until I come, devote yourself to the public, reading of Scripture, to exhortation, to teaching.
**14:** Do not neglect the gift you have, which was given you by prophecy when the council of elders laid their hands on you.
**15:** Practice these things, immerse yourself in them, so that all may see your progress.
**16:** Keep a close watch on yourself and on the teaching. Persist in this, for by so doing you will save both yoursel and your hearers.

## Footnotes

<ol type='a'>
	<li>1 Timothy 4:6 Or brothers and sisters. In New Testament usage, depending on the context, the plural Greek word adelphoi (translated “brothers”) may refer either to brothers or to brothers and sisters</li>
	<li>1 Timothy 4:10 Some manuscripts and suffer reproach</li>
	<li>1 Timothy 4:15 Greek be in them</li>
</ol>


id: a29372fc923a4d3c8226d0c07ff2cb08
parent_id: 45f435ea63164663b49e4cd00ab9c242
created_time: 2023-10-17T00:02:40.723Z
updated_time: 2023-10-17T00:24:57.674Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 32.51494690
longitude: -117.03824710
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 0
user_created_time: 2023-10-17T00:02:40.723Z
user_updated_time: 2023-10-17T00:24:57.674Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
deleted_time: 0
type_: 1