Chapter 6

# Chapter 6
## 
**Verses 1-13**
**1:** Working together with him, then, we appeal to you not to receive the grace of God in vain.
**2:** For he says,
> "In a favorable time I listened to you,
> and in a day of salvation I have helped you."

Behold, now is the favorite time; behold, now is the day of salvation.
**3:** We put on obstacle in anyone's way, so that no fault may be found with our ministry,
**4:** but as servants of God we commend ourselves in every way: by great endurance, in afflictions, hardships, calamities,
**5:** beatings, imprisonments, riots, labors, sleepless nights, hunger;
**6:** by purity, knowledge, patience, kindness, the Holy Spirit, genuine love;
**7:** by truthful speech, and the power of God; with the weapons of righteousness for the right hand and for the left;
**8:** through honor and dishonor, through slander and praise. We are treated as impostors, and yet are true;
**9:** as uknown, and yet well known; as dying, and behold, we live; as punished, and yet not killed;
**10:** as sorrowful, yet always rejoicing; as poor, yet making many rich; as having nothing, yet possessing everything.

**11:** We have spoken freely to you, Corinthians; our heart is wide open.
**12:** You are not restricted by us, but you are restricted in your own affections.
**13:** In return (I speak as to children) widen your hearts also.

## The Temple of the Living God
**Verses 14-18**
**14:** Do not be unequally yoked with unbelievers. For what partnership has light with darkness?
**15:** What accord has Christ with Belial? Or what portion does a believer share with an unbeliever?
**16:** What agreement has the temple of God with idols? For we are the temple of the living God; as God said,
**17-18:**
> "I will make my dwelling among them and walk among them,
> and I will be their God,
> and they shall be my people.
> Therefore go out from their midst,
> and be separate from them, says the Lord,
> and touch no unclean thing;
> then I will welcome you,
> and I will be a father to you,
> and you shall be sons and daughters to me,
> says the Lord Almighty."

# Footnotes
<ol type='a'>
	<li>2 Corinthians 6:11 Greek Our mouth is open to you</li>
	<li>2 Corinthians 6:15 Greek Beliar</li>
</ol>


id: a416edbfa63b4666a2e88bbacee7745c
parent_id: f3cf5475774f4c51b7bf7828f5d6a965
created_time: 2023-09-27T21:53:43.462Z
updated_time: 2023-09-28T11:03:27.210Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 32.51494690
longitude: -117.03824710
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 0
user_created_time: 2023-09-27T21:53:43.462Z
user_updated_time: 2023-09-28T11:03:27.210Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
deleted_time: 0
type_: 1