Chapter 2

# Chapter 2

## Warning Against Neglecting Salvation

**Verses 1-4**
**1:** Therefore we must pay much closer attention to what we have heard, lest we drift away from it.
**2:** For since the message declared by the angels proved to be reliable, and every transgression or disobedience received a just retribution,
**3:** how shall we escape if we neglect such a great salvation? It was declared at first by the Lord, and it was attested to us by those who heard,
**4:** while God also bore witness by signs and wonders and various miracles and by gifts of the Holy Spirit distributed according to his will.

## The Founder of Salvation

**Verses 5-18**
**5:** For it was not to angels that God subjected the world to come, of which we are speaking.
**6:** It has been testified somewhere,
**7-8:** 
> "What is man, that you are mindful of him,
> or the son of man, that you care for him?
> You made him for a little while lower than the angels;
> you have crowned him with glory and honor,
> putting everything in subjection under his feet."

Now in putting everything in subjection to him, he left nothing outside his control. At present, we do not yet see everything in subjection to him.
**9:** But we see him who for a little while was made lower than the angels, namely Jesus, crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone.

**10:** For it was fitting that he, for whom and by whom all things exist, in bringing many sons to glory, should make the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering.
**11:** For he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all have one source. That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers,
**12:** saying,
> "I will tell your name to my brothers;
> in the midst of the congregration I will sing your praise."

**13:** And again,
> "I will put my trust in him."

And again,
> "Behold, I and the children God has given me."

**14:** Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same things, that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is, the devil,
**15:** and deliver all those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery.
**16:** For surely it is not angels that he helps, but he helps the offspring of Abraham.
**17:** Therefore he had to be made like his brothers in every respect, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people.
**18:** For because he himself has suffered when tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted.

## Footnotes

<ol type='a'>
	<li>Hebrews 2:7 Some manuscripts insert and set him over the works of your hands</li>
	<li>Hebrews 2:11 Greek all are of one</li>
	<li>Hebrews 2:11 Or brothers and sisters. In New Testament usage, depending on the context, the plural Greek word adelphoi (translated “brothers”) may refer either to brothers or to brothers and sisters; also verse 12</li>
</ol>


id: a6db59abd4e24523b797767d6b807409
parent_id: a4a99ba7bd944d89bc281c44ca4427c1
created_time: 2023-10-21T05:07:30.968Z
updated_time: 2023-10-26T16:13:21.167Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 0.00000000
longitude: 0.00000000
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 1697864902977
user_created_time: 2023-10-21T05:07:30.968Z
user_updated_time: 2023-10-26T16:13:21.167Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
deleted_time: 0
type_: 1