Chapter 3

# Chapter 3

## Taming the Tongue

**Verses 1-**
**1:** Not many of you should become teachers, my brothers, for you know that we who teach will be judged with greater strictness.
**2:** For we all stumble in many ways. And if anyone does not stumble in what he says, he is perfect man, able also to bridle his whole body.
**3:** If we put bits into the mouths of horses so that they obey us, we guide their whole bodies as well.
**4:** Look at the ships also: though they are so large and are driven by strong winds, they are guided by a very small rudder wherever the will of the pilot directs.
**5:** So also the tongue is a small member, yet it boasts of great things.

How great a forest is set ablaze by such a small fire!
**6:** And the tongue is a fire, a world of unrighteousness. The tongue is set among our members, staining the whole body, setting on fire the entire course of life, and set on fire by hell.
**7:** For every kind of beast and bird, of reptile and sea creature, can be tamed and has been tamed by mankind,
**8:** but no human being can tame the tongue. It is a restless evil, full of deadly poison.
**9:** WIth it we bless our Lord and Father, and with it we curse people who are made in the likeness of God.
**10:** From the same mouth come blessing and cursing. My brothers, these things ought not to be so.
**11:** Does a spring pour forth from the same opening both fresh and salt water?
**12:** Can a fig tree, my brothers, bear olives, or a grapevine produce figs? Neither can a salt pond yield fresh water.

## Wisdom from Above

**Verses 13-18**
**13:** Who is wise and understanding among you? By his good conduct let him show his works in the meekness of wisdom.
**14:** But if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your hearts, do not boast and be false to the truth.
**15:** This is not the wisdom that comes down from above, but is earthly, unspiritual, demonic.
**16:** For where jealousy and selfish ambition exists, there will be disorder and every vile practice.
**17:** But the wisdom from above is first pure, then peacable, gentle, open to reason, full of mercy and good fruits, impartial and sincere.
**18:** And a harvest of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace.

## Footnotes

<ol type='a'>
	<li>James 3:6 Or wheel of birth</li>
	<li>James 3:6 Greek Gehenna</li>
	<li>James 3:10 Or brothers and sisters; also verse 12</li>
</ol>


id: b8dce88e61e047cdbf65e5f2edfa2483
parent_id: f685421f6453452f943b5be4cfc171af
created_time: 2023-10-30T09:40:49.865Z
updated_time: 2023-10-31T07:11:15.923Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 0.00000000
longitude: 0.00000000
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 1698658937840
user_created_time: 2023-10-30T09:40:49.865Z
user_updated_time: 2023-10-31T07:11:15.923Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
deleted_time: 0
type_: 1