Chapter 1

# Chapter 1
## The Genealogy of Jesus Christ
**Verses 1-17**
**1:** The book of genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham.

**2:** Abraham was the father of Isaac, and Isaac the father of Jacob, and Jacob the father of Judah and his brothers,
**3:** and Judah the father of Perez and Zerah by Tamar, and Perez the father of Hezron, and Hezron the father of Ram,
**4:** and Ram the father of Amminadab, and Amminadab the father of Nahshon, and Nahshon the father of Salmon,
**5:** and Salmon the father of Boaz by Rahab, and Boaz the father of Obed by Ruth, and Obed the father of Jesse,
**6:** and Jesse the father of David the king.

And David was the father of Solomon by the wife of Uriah,
**7:** and Solomon the father of Rehoboam, and  Rehoboam the father of Abijah, and Abijah the father of Asaph,
**8:** and Asaph the father of Jehoshaphat, and Jehoshaphat the father of Joram, Joram the father of Uzziah,
**10:** and Uzziah the father of Jotham, and Jotham the father of Ahaz, and Ahaz the father of Hezekiah, and Hezekiah the father of Manasseh, and Manasseh the father of Amos, and Amos the father of Josiah,
**11:** and Josiah the father of Jechoniah and his brothers, at the time of the deportation to Babylon.

**12:** And after the deportation to Babylon: Jechoniah was the father of Shealtiel, and Shealtiel the father of Zerubbabel,
**13** and Zerubbabel the father of Abiud, and Abiud the father of Eliakim, and Eliakim the father of Azor,
**14:** and Azor the father of Zadok, and Zadok the father of Achim, and Achim the father of Eliud,
**15:** and Eliud the father of Eleazer, and Eleazer the father of Matthan, and Matthan the father of Jacob,
**16:** and Jacob the father of Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom Jesus was born, who is called Christ.

**17:** So all the generations from Abraham to David were fourteen generations, and from David to the deportation to Babylon fourteen generations, and from the deportation to Babylon to the Christ fourteen generations.

## The Birth of Jesus Christ
**Verses 18-24**
**18:** Now the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph, before they came together she was found out to be with child from the Holy Spirit.
**19:** And her husband Joseph, being a just man and unwilling to put her to shame, resolved to divorce her quietly.
**20:** But as he considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying "Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife, for that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit.
**21:** She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins."
**22:** All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet:

**23:**
> "Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son,
> and they shall call his name Immanuel"

(which means, God with us).
**24:** When Joseph woke from sleep, he did as the angel of the Lord commanded him: he took his wife,
**25:** but knew her not until she had given birth to a son. And he called his name Jesus.

# Footnotes

<ol type='a'>
	<li>Matthew 1:3 Greek Aram; also verse 4</li>
	<li>Matthew 1:7 Asaph is probably an alternate spelling of Asa; some manuscripts Asa; also verse 8</li>
	<li>Matthew 1:10 Amos is probably an alternate spelling of Amon; some manuscripts Amon; twice in this verse</li>
	<li>Matthew 1:12 Greek Salathiel; twice in this verse</li>
	<li>Matthew 1:18 Some manuscripts of the Christ</li>
	<li>Matthew 1:18 That is, legally pledged to be married</li>
</ol>


id: b9d7366b67af40a7b89572dbb614308d
parent_id: fb95d6dc92724043bdad7e5d688f9ed2
created_time: 2023-08-01T21:08:56.438Z
updated_time: 2023-10-19T12:46:07.624Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 32.51494690
longitude: -117.03824710
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 0
user_created_time: 2023-08-01T21:08:56.438Z
user_updated_time: 2023-10-19T12:46:07.624Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
deleted_time: 0
type_: 1