Chapter 1

# Chapter 1

## Greeting

**Verse 1*
**1:** Paul, Silvanus, and Timothy,

To the church of the Thessalonians in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ:

Grace to you and peace.

## The Thessalonians' Faith and Example

**Verses 2-10**
**2:** We give thanks to God always for all of you, constantly mentioning you in our prayers,
**3:** remembering before our God and Father your work of faith and labor of love and steadfastness of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ.
**4:** For we know, brothers loved by God, that he has chosen you,
**5:** because our gospel came to you not only in word, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit and with full conviction. You know what kind of men we proved to be among you for your sake.
**6:** And you became imitators of us and of the Lord, for you received the word in much affliction, with joy of the Holy Spirit,
**7:** so that you became an example to all the believers in Macedonia and in Achaia.
**8:** For not only has the word of the Lord sounded from you in Macedonia and Achaia, but your faith in God has gone forth everywhere, so that we need not say anything.
**9:** For they themselves report concerning us the kind of reception we had among you, and how you turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God,
**10:** and to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come.

# Footnotes

<ol type='a'>
	<li>1 Thessalonians 1:2 Or without ceasing</li>
	<li>1 Thessalonians 1:4 Or brothers and sisters. In New Testament usage, depending on the context, the plural Greek word adelphoi (translated brothers) may refer either to brothers or to brothers and sisters</li>
</ol>


id: bb72c142c02a41a9ba7db9b2ea4a30e6
parent_id: 5be874baec7345ef9762eb171710634a
created_time: 2023-10-06T23:29:26.756Z
updated_time: 2023-11-04T06:53:08.988Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 32.51494690
longitude: -117.03824710
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 0
user_created_time: 2023-10-06T23:29:26.756Z
user_updated_time: 2023-11-04T06:53:08.988Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
deleted_time: 0
type_: 1