Chapter 1

# Chapter 1

## Greeting

**Verses 1-3**
**1:** The elder to the elect lady and her children, whom I love in truth, and not only I, but also all who know the truth, 
**2:** because of the truth that abides in us and will be with us forever:

**3:** Grace, mercy, and peace will be with us, from God the Father and from Jesus Christ the Father's Son, in truth and love.

## Walking in Truth and Love

**Verses 4-11**
**4:** I rejoiced greatly to find some of your children walking in truth, just as we were commanded by the Father.
**5:** And now I ask you, dear lady—not as though I were writing to you a new commandment, but the one we have had from the beginning—that we love one another.
**6:** And this is love, that we walk according to his commandments; this i the commandment, just as you have heard from the beginning, so that you should walk in it.
**7:** For many deceivers have gone out into the world, those who do not confess the coming of Jesus Christ in the flesh. Such a one is the deceiver and the antichrist.
**8:** Watch yourselves, so that you may not lose what we have worked for, but may win a full reward.
**9:** Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the teaching of Christ, does not have God. Whoever abides in the teaching has both the Father and the Son.
**10:** If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not receive him into your house or give him any greeting,
**11:** for whoever greets him takes part in his wicked works.

## Final Greetings

**Verses 12-13**
**12:** Though I have much to write to you, I would rather not use paper and ink. Instead I hope to come to you and talk face to face, so that our joy may be complete.

**13:** The children of your elect sister greet you.

## Footnotes

<ol type='a'>
	<li>2 John 1:8 Some manuscripts you</li>
</ol>


id: c8b242eeb91d4151965f5f12c24bf259
parent_id: 194e2f4b1e9f4500a410583c8ee3fa06
created_time: 2023-11-03T03:16:29.232Z
updated_time: 2023-11-06T22:37:01.975Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 0.00000000
longitude: 0.00000000
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 1698981497979
user_created_time: 2023-11-03T03:16:29.232Z
user_updated_time: 2023-11-06T22:37:01.975Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
deleted_time: 0
type_: 1