Chapter 13

# Chapter 13
## The Way of Love
**Verses 1-13**
**1:** If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I am a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal.
**2:** And if I have prophetic powers, and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith, so as to remove mountains, but have not love, I am nothing.
**3:** If I give away all I have, and if I deliver up my body to be burned, but have not love, I gain nothing.

**4:** Love is patient and kind; love does not envy or boast; it is not arrogant
**5:** or rude. It does not insist on its own way; it is not irritable or resentful;
**6:** it does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but rejoices with the truth.
**7:** Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things.

**8:** Love never ends. As for prophecies, they will pass away; as for tongues, they will cease; as for knowledge, it will pass away.
**9:** For we know in part and we prophesy in part,
**10:** but when the perfect comes, the partial will pass away.
**11:** When I was a child, I spoke like a child, I thought like a child, I reasoned like a child. When I became a man, I gave up childish ways.
**12:** For now we see in a mirror dimly, but then face to face. Now I know part; then I shall know fully, even as I have been fully known.

**13:** So now faith, hope, and love abide, these three; but the greatest of these is love.

# Footnotes
<ol type='a'>
	<li>1 Corinthians 13:3 Some manuscripts deliver up my body [to death] that I may boast</li>
	<li>1 Corinthians 13:5 Greek irritable and does not count up wrongdoing</li>
</ol>


id: c95d397870384f62b930652c8ecc3282
parent_id: b163bd7471e84ad797f28c2802e62834
created_time: 2023-09-25T01:13:32.809Z
updated_time: 2023-09-26T11:01:32.419Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 32.51494690
longitude: -117.03824710
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 0
user_created_time: 2023-09-25T01:13:32.809Z
user_updated_time: 2023-09-26T11:01:32.419Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
deleted_time: 0
type_: 1