Chapter 1

# Chapter 1

## Greeting

**Verses 1-3**
**1:** Paul, a prisoner for Christ Jesus, and Timothy our brother,

To Philemon our beloved fellow worker
**2:** and Apphia our sister and Archippus our fellow soldier, and the church in your house:

**3:** Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.

## Philemon's Love and Faith

**Verses 4-7**
**4:** I thank my God always when I remember you in my prayers,
**5:** because I hear of your love and of the faith that you have toward the Lord Jesus and for all the saints,
**6:** and I pray that the sharing of your faith may become effective for the full knowledge of every good thing that is in us for the sake of Christ.
**7:** For I have derived much joy and comfort from your love, my brother, because the hearts of the saints have been refreshed through you.

## Paul's Plea for Onesimus

**Verses 8-22**
**8:** Accordingly, though I am bold enough in Christ to command you to do what is required,
**9:** yet for love's sake I pefer to appeal to you—I, Paul, an old man and now a prisoner also for Christ Jesus—
**10:** I appeal to you for my child, Onesimus, whose father I became in my imprisonment.
**11:** (Formerly he was useless to you, but now he is indeed useful to you and to me.)
**12:** I am sending him back to you, sending my very heart.
**13:** I would have been glad to keep him with me in order that he might serve me on your behalf during my imprisonment for the gospel,
**14:** but I preferred to do nothing without your consent in order that your goodness might not be by compulsion but of your own accord.
**15:** For this perhaps is why he was parted from you for a while, that you might have him back forever,
**16:** no longer as a bondservant but more than a bondservant, as a beloved brother—especially to me, but how much more to you, both in the flesh and in the Lord.

**17:** So if you consider me your partner, receive him as you would receive me.
**18:** If he has wronged you at all, or owes you anything, charge that to my account.
**19:** I, Paul, write this with my own hand: I will repay it—to say nothing of your owing me even your own self.
**20:** Yes, brother, I want some benefit from you in the Lord.
Refresh my heart in Christ.

**21:** Confident of your obedience, I write to you, knowing that you will do even more than I say.
**22:** At the same time, prepare a guest room for me, for I am hoping that through your prayers I will graciously given to you.

## Final Greetings

**Verses 23-25**
**23:** Epaphras, my fellow prisoner in Christ Jesus, sends grettings to you.
**24:** and so do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, and Luke, my fellow workers.

**25:** The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.

## Footnotes

<ol type='a'>
	<li>Philemon 1:6 Or for Christ's service</li>
	<li>Philemon 1:10 Onesimus means useful (see verse 11) or beneficial (see verse 20)</li>
	<li>Philemon 1:16 For the contextual rendering of the Greek word doulos, see Preface; twice in this verse</li>
</ol>


id: cf56027d9361478faabad314280f1a77
parent_id: e4505d1077fb4b95b3646895c34c6586
created_time: 2023-10-21T04:50:12.762Z
updated_time: 2023-10-21T05:06:55.560Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 0.00000000
longitude: 0.00000000
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 1697863840401
user_created_time: 2023-10-21T04:50:12.762Z
user_updated_time: 2023-10-21T05:06:55.560Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
deleted_time: 0
type_: 1