Chapter 9

# Chapter 9
## The Collection for Christians in Jerusalem
**Verses 1-5**
**1:** Now it is superfluous for me to write to you about the ministry for the saints,
**2:** for I know your readiness, of which I boast about you to the people of Macedonia, saying that Achaia has been ready since last year. And your zeal has stirred up most of them.
**3:** But I am sending the brothers so that our boasting about you may not prove empty in this matter, so that you may be ready, as I said you would be.
**4:** Otherwise, if some Macedonians come with me and find that you are not ready, we would be humiliated—to say nothing about you—for being so confident.
**5:** So I thought it necessary to urge the brothers to go on ahead to you and arrange in advance for the gift you have promised, so that it may be ready as a willing gift, not as an exaction.

## The Cheerful Giver
**Verses 6-15**
**6:** The point is this: whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and whoever sows bountifully will also reap bountifully.
**7:** Each one must give as he has decided in his heart, not reluctantly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver.
**8:** And God is able to make all grace abound to you, so that having all sufficiency in all things at all times, you may abound in every good work.
**9:** As it is written,
> "He has distributed freely, he has given to the poor;
> his righteousness endures forever."

**10:** He who supplies seed to the sower and bread for food will supply and multiply your seed for sowing and increase the harvest of your righteousness.
**11:** You will be enriched in every way to be generous in every way, which through us will produce thanksgiving to God.
**12:** For the ministry of this service is not only supplying the needs of the saints but is also overflowing in many thanksgivings to God.
**13:** By their approval of this service, they will glorify God because of your submission that comes from your confession of the gospel of Christ, and the generosity of your contribution for them and for all others,
**14:** while they long for you and pray for you, because of the surpassing grace of God upon you.
**15:** Thanks be to God for his inexpressible gift!

# Footnotes
<ol type='a'>
	<li>2 Corinthians 9:3 Or I have sent</li>
	<li>2 Corinthians 9:5 Greek blessing; twice in this verse</li>
	<li>2 Corinthians 9:5 Or a gift expecting something in return; Greek greed</li>
	<li>2 Corinthians 9:6 Greek with blessings; twice in this verse</li>
	<li>2 Corinthians 9:8 Or all contentment</li>
	<li>2 Corinthians 9:13 Or you</li>
</ol>


id: d2a4a7523ce54a83a175ec77e1ff4295
parent_id: f3cf5475774f4c51b7bf7828f5d6a965
created_time: 2023-09-28T22:22:33.172Z
updated_time: 2023-09-28T22:41:32.719Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 32.51494690
longitude: -117.03824710
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 0
user_created_time: 2023-09-28T22:22:33.172Z
user_updated_time: 2023-09-28T22:41:32.719Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
deleted_time: 0
type_: 1