Chapter 2

# Chapter 2

## Teach Sound Doctrine

**Verses 1-15**
**1:** But as for you, teach what accords with sound doctrine.
**2:** Older men are to be sober-minded, dignified, self-controlled, sound in faith, and in steadfastness.
**3:** Older women likewise are to be reverent in behavior, not slanderers or slaves to much wine. They are to teach what is good,
**4:** and so train the young women to love their husbands and children,
**5:** to be self-controlled, pure, working at home, kind, and submissive to their own husbands, that the word of God may not be reviled.
**6:** Likewise, urge the younger men to be self-controlled.
**7:** Show yourself in all respects to be a model of good works, and in your teaching show integrity, dignity,
**8:** and sound speech that cannot be condemned, so that an opponent may be put to shame, having nothing evil to say about us.
**9:** Bondservants are to be submissive to their own masters in everything; they are to be well-pleasing, not argumentative,
**10:** not pilfering, but showing all good faith, so that in everything they may adorn the doctrine of God our Savior.

**11:** For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for all people,
**12:** training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions, and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age,
**13:** waiting for our blessed hope, the appearing of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ,
**14:** who gave himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness and to purify for himself a people for his own possession who are zealous for good works.

**15:** Declare these things; exhort and rebuke with all authority. Let no one disregard you.

## Footnotes

<ol type='a'>
	<li>Titus 2:1 Or healthy; also verses 2, 8</li>
	<li>Titus 2:9 For the contextual rendering of the Greek word doulos, see Preface</li>
</ol>


id: d33828f27b584a1eb0d2ed5434e0d207
parent_id: 0d2d282d75f64253870465e9a75bfa3f
created_time: 2023-10-20T12:21:22.722Z
updated_time: 2023-10-21T04:38:22.407Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 0.00000000
longitude: 0.00000000
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 1697805012170
user_created_time: 2023-10-20T12:21:22.722Z
user_updated_time: 2023-10-21T04:38:22.407Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
deleted_time: 0
type_: 1