Chapter 15

# Chapter 15
## The Parable of the Lost Sheep
**Verses 1-7**
**1:** Now the tax collectors and sinners were all drawing near to hear him.
**2:** And the Pharisees and the scribes grumbled, saying, "This man receives sinners and eats with them."

**3:** So he told them this parable:
**4:** "What man of you, having a hundred sheep, if he lost one of them, does not leave the ninety-nine in the open country, and go after the one that is lost, until he finds it?
**5:** And when he has found it, he lays it on his shoulders, rejoicing.
**6:** And when he comes home, he calls together his friends and his neighbors, saying to them, 'Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep that was lost.'
**7:** Just so, I tell you, there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine righteous persons who need no repentance."

## The Parable of the Lost Coin
**Verses 8-10**
**8:** "Or what woman, having ten silver coins, if she loses one coin, does not light a lamp and sweep the house and seek diligently until she finds it?
**9:** And when she has found it, she calls together her friend and neighbors, saying, 'Rejoice with me, for I have found the coin that I had lost.'
**10:** Just so, I tell you, there is joy before the angels of God over one sinner who repents."

## The Parable of the Prodigal Son
**Verses 11-32**
**11:** And he said, "There was a man who had two sons.
**12:** And the younger of them said to his father, 'Father, give me the share of property that is coming to me.' And he divided his property between them.
**13:** Not many days later, the younger son gathered all he had and took a journey into a far country, and there he squandered his property in reckless living.
**14:** And when he had spent everything, a severe famine arose in that country, and he began to be in need.
**15:** So he went and hired himself out to one of the citizens of that country, who sent him into his fields to feed pigs.
**16:** And he was longing to be fed with the pods that the pigs ate, and no one gave him anything."

**17:** "But when he came to himself, he said, 'How many of my father's hired servants have more than enough bread, but I perish here with hunger!
**18:** I will arise and go to my father, and I will say to him, "Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you.
**19:** I am no longer worthy to be called your son. Treat me as one of your hired servants."'
**20:** And he arose and came to his father. But while he was still a long way off, his father saw him and felt compassion, and ran and embraced him and kissed him.
**21:** And the son said to him, 'Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you. I am no longer worthy to be called your son.'
**22:** But the father said to his servants, 'Bring quickly the best robe, and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet.
**23:** And bring the fattened calf and kill it, and let us eat and celebrate.
**24:** For my son was dead, and is alive again; he was lost, and is found.' And they began to celebrate.

**25:** "Now his older son was in the field, and as he came and drew near to the house, he heard music and dancing.
**26:** And he called one of the servants and asked what these things meant.
**27:** And he said to him, 'Your brother has come, and your father has killed the fattened calf, because he has received him back safe and sound.'
**28:** But he was angry and refused to go in. His father came out and entreated him,
**29:** but he answered his father, 'Look, these many years I have served you, and I never disobeyed your command, yet you never gave me a young goat, that I might celebrate with my friends.
**30:** But when this son of yours came, who has  devoured your property with prostitutes, you killed the fattened calf for him!'
**31:** And he said to him, 'Son, you are always with me, and all that is mine is yours.
**32:** It was fitting to celebrate and be glad, for this your brother was dead, and is alive; he was lost, and is found.'"

# Footnotes
<ol type='a'>
	<li>Luke 15:8 Greek ten drachmas; a drachma was a Greek coin approximately equal in value to a Roman denarius, worth about a day's wage for a laborer</li>
	<li>Luke 15:15 Greek joined himself to</li>
	<li>Luke 15:21 Some manuscripts add treat me as one of your hired servants</li>
	<li>Luke 15:22 Or bondservants</li>
</ol>


id: e3448f62811a4a9987a98481d191b35f
parent_id: ef3bf8494b3545ffb42e13c7e223a3e7
created_time: 2023-09-03T03:02:55.826Z
updated_time: 2023-09-03T04:52:25.844Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 32.51494690
longitude: -117.03824710
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 0
user_created_time: 2023-09-03T03:02:55.826Z
user_updated_time: 2023-09-03T04:52:25.844Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
deleted_time: 0
type_: 1