Chapter 6

# Chapter 6
## Bear One Another's Burdens
**Verses 1-10**
**1:** Brothers, if anyone is caught in any transgression, you who are spiritual should restore him in a spirit of gentleness. Keep watch on yourself, lest you too be tempted.
**2:** Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ.
**3:** For if anyone thinks he is something, when he is nothing, he deceives himself.
**4:** But let each one test his own work, and then his reason to boast will be in himself alone and not in his neighbor.
**5:** For each will have to bear his own load.
**6:** Let the one who is taught the word share all good things with the one who teaches.
**7:** Do not be deceived: God is not mocked, for whatever one sows, that will he also reap.
**8:** For the one who sows to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption, but the one who sows to the Spirit will from the Spirit reap eternal life.
**9:** And let us not grow weary of doing good, for in due season we will reap, if we do not give up.
**10:** So then, as we have opportunity, let us do good to everyone, and especially to those who are of the household of faith.

## Final Warning and Benediction
**Verses 11-18**
**11:** See with what large letters I am writing to you with my own hand.
**12:** It is those who want to make a good showing in the flesh who would force you to be circumcised, and only in order that they may not be persecuted for cross of Christ.
**13:** For even those who are circumcised do not themselves keep the law, but they desire to have you circumcised that they may boast in your flesh.
**14:** But far be it from me to boast except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by which the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world.
**15:** For neither circumcision counts for anything, nor uncircumcision, but a new creation.
**16:** And as for all who walk by this rule, peace and mercy be upon them, and upon the the Israel of God.
**17:** From now on let no one cause me trouble, for I bear on my body the marks of Jesus.
**18:** The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit, brothers. Amen.

# Footnotes
<ol type='a'>
	<li>Galatians 6:1 Or Brothers and sisters; also verse 18</li>
	<li>Galatians 6:14 Or through whomq</li>
</ol>


id: e807602fce8d4a3b8e6603fb9e65e69a
parent_id: 9cf934110ed647a2aae26b81ca5c7c35
created_time: 2023-10-01T02:06:35.651Z
updated_time: 2023-10-01T10:24:56.357Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 0.00000000
longitude: 0.00000000
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 0
user_created_time: 2023-10-01T02:06:35.651Z
user_updated_time: 2023-10-01T10:24:56.357Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
deleted_time: 0
type_: 1