Chapter 1

# Chapter 1
## Greeting
**Verses 1-2**
**1:** Paul an Timothy, servants of Christ Jesus,

To all the saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi, with the overseers and deacons:

**2:** Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.

## Thanksgiving and Prayer
**Verses 3-11**
**3:** I thank God in all my rememberance of you,
**4:** always in every prayer of mine for you all making my prayer with joy,
**5:** because of your partnership in the gospel from the first day until now.
**6:** And I am sure of this, that he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ.
**7:** It is right for me to feel this way about you all, because I hold you in my heart, for you are all partakers with me of grace, both in my imprisonment and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel.
**8:** For God is my witness, how I yearn for you all with the affection of Christ Jesus.
**9:** And it is my prayer that your love may abound more and more, with knowledge and all discernment,
**10:** so that you may approve what is excellent, and so be pure and blameless for the day of Christ,
**11:** filled with the fruit of righteousness that comes through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.

## The Advance of the Gospel
**Verses 12-18**
**12:** I want you to know, brothers, that what has happened to me has really served to advance the gospel,
**13:** so that it has become known throughout the whole imperial guard and to all the rest that my imprisonment is for Christ.
**14:** And most of the brothers, having become confident in the Lord by my imprisonment, are much more bold to speak the word without fear.

**15:** Some indeed preach Christ from envy and rivalry, but others from good will.
**16:** The latter do it out of love, knowing that I am put here for the defense of the gospel.
**17:** The former proclaim Christ out of selfish ambition, not sincerely but thinking to afflict me in my imprisonment.
**18:** What then? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is proclaimed, and in that I rejoice.

## To Live Is Christ
**Verses 19-30**
Yes, and I will rejoice,
**19:** for I know that through your prayers and the help of the Spirit of Jesus Christ this will turn out for my deliverance,
**20:** as it is my eager expectation and hope that I will not at all be ashamed, but that with full courage now as always Christ will be honored in my body, whether by life or by death.
**21:** For me to live is Christ, and to die is gain.
**22:** If I am to live in the flesh, that means fruitful labor for me. Yet which I shall choose I cannot tell.
**23:** I am hard pressed between the two. My is desire to depart and be with Christ, for that is far better.
**24:** But to remain in the flesh is more necessary on your account.
**25:** Convinced of this, I know that I will remain and continue with you all, for your progress and joy in the faith,
**26:** so that in me you may have ample cause to glory in Christ Jesus, because of my coming to you again.

**27:** Only let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come and see you or am absent, I may hear of you that you are standing firm in one spirit, with one mind striving side by side for the faith of the gospel,
**28:** and not frightened in anything by your opponents. This is a clear sign to them of their destruction, but of your salvation, and that from God.
**29:** For it has been granted to you that for the sake of Christ you should not only believe in him but also suffer for his sake,
**30:** engaged in the same conflict that you saw I had and now hear that I still have.

# Footnotes
<ol type='a'>
	<li>Philippians 1:1 For the contextual rendering of the Greek word doulos, see Preface</li>
	<li>Philippians 1:1 Or bishops; Greek episkopoi</li>
	<li>Philippians 1:1 Or servants, or ministers; Greek diakonoi</li>
	<li>Philippians 1:7 Or you all have fellowship with me in grace</li>
	<li>Philippians 1:12 Or brothers and sisters. In New Testament usage, depending on the context, the plural Greek word adelphoi (translated “brothers”) may refer either to brothers or to brothers and sisters; also verse 14</li>
	<li>Philippians 1:13 Greek in the whole praetorium</li>
	<li>Philippians 1:14 Some manuscripts add of God</li>
	<li>Philippians 1:27 Greek Only behave as citizens worthy</li>
</ol>


id: f2872bceb30741e6a2cd62fe0b42ac93
parent_id: 76a701e763be4119b3f90275979a2230
created_time: 2023-10-02T09:38:09.147Z
updated_time: 2023-10-03T04:48:20.800Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 32.51494690
longitude: -117.03824710
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 0
user_created_time: 2023-10-02T09:38:09.147Z
user_updated_time: 2023-10-03T04:48:20.800Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
deleted_time: 0
type_: 1