Chapter 35

# Chapter 35

## God Blesses and Renames Jacob

**1:** God said to Jacob, "Arise, go up to Bethel and dwell there. Make an altar there to the God who appeared to you when you fled from your brother Esau."
**2:** So Jacob said to his household and to all who were with him, "Put away the foreign gods that are among you and purify yourselves and change your garments.
**3:** Then let us arise and go up to Bethel, so that I may make there an altar to the God who answers me in the day of my distress and has been with me wherever I have gone."
**4:** So they gave Jacob all the foreign gods that they had, and the rings that were in their ears. Jacob hid them under the terebinth tree that was near Shechem.

**5:** And as they sojourned, a terror from God fell upon the cities that were around them, so that they did not pursue the sons of Jacob.
**6:** And Jacob came to Luz (that is, Bethel), which is the land of Canaan, he and all the people who were with him,
**7:** and there he built an altar and called the place El-bethel, because there God had revealed himself to him when he fled from his brother.
**8:** And Deborah, Rebekah's nurse, died, and she was buried under an oak below Bethel. So he called its name Allon-bacuth.

**9:** God appeared to Jacob again, when he came from Paddan-aram, and blessed him.
**10:** And God said to him, "Your name is Jacob; no longer shall your name be called Jacob, but Israel shall be your name." So he called his name Israel.
**11:** And God said to him, "I am God Almighty: be fruitful and multiply. A nation and a company of nations shall come from you, and kings shall come from your own body.
**12:** The land that I gave to Abraham and Isaac I will give to you, and I will give the land to your offspring after you."
**13:** Then God went up from him in the place where he had spoken with him.
**14:** And Jacob set up a pillar in the place where he had spoken with him, a pillar of stone. He poured out a drink offering on it and poured oil on it.
**15:** So Jacob called the name of the place where God had spoken with him Bethel.

## The Deaths of Rachel and Isaac

**16:** Then they journeyed from Bethel. When they were still some distance from Ephrath, Rachel went into labor, and she had hard labor.
**17:** And when her labor was at its hardest, the midwife said to her, "Do not fear, for you have another son."
**18:** And as her soul was departing (for she was dying), she called his name Ben-oni; but his father called him Benjamin.
**19:** So Rachel died, and she was buried on the way to Ephrath (that is, Bethlehem),
**20:** and Jacob set up a pillar over her tomb. It is the pillar of Rachel's tomb, which is ther to this day.
**21:** Israel journeyed on and pitched his tent beyond the tower of Eder.

**22:** While Israel lived in that land, Reuben went and lay with Bilhah his father's concubine. And Israel heard of it.

Now the sons of Jacob were twelve.
**23:** The sons of Leah: Reuben (Jacob's firstborn), Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun.
**24:** The sons of Rachel: Joseph and Benjamin.
**25:** The sons of Bilhah, Rachel's servant: Dan and Naphtali.
**26:** The sons of Zilpah, Leah's servant: Gad and Asher. These were the sons of Jacob who were born to him in Paddan-aram.

**27:** And Jacob came to his father Isaac at Mamre, or Kiriath-arba (that is, Hebron), where Abraham and Isaac had sojourned.
**28:** Now the days of Isaac were 180 years.
**29:** And Isaac breathed his last, and he died and was gathered to his people, old and full of days. And his sons Esau and Jacob buried him.


id: f36535a966ab43ee8079e3fa165feab6
parent_id: dd250cd0c2504220ba72c04b943ad7d6
created_time: 2024-02-13T23:27:36.031Z
updated_time: 2024-02-13T23:27:41.129Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 32.52983830
longitude: -116.86457060
altitude: 112.2000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-mobile
application_data: 
order: 1707866856029
user_created_time: 2024-02-13T23:27:36.031Z
user_updated_time: 2024-02-13T23:27:41.129Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
user_data: 
deleted_time: 0
type_: 1